Hi, we're going to walk through on all tricks workflow where we run into
errors and we try to figure out what's going on and hopefully solve those errors quickly.
So the example I'm going to use is we're going to bring in
the old diamond dataset from the first project.
We're going to try and apply the linear regression formula that we give you in
that project to see
how closely the predicted price from the model is to the actual price of the diamond.
So, before we do anything we have to name our field.
So, we're going to call this predicted price.
After we do that,
now we can type in an expression.
So, I'm just going to copy in the expression that
we got from the linear regression model.
So, right away, here you can see there's a parse error.
We don't need to have this first part to run
this formula because the expression will return the value for predicted price.
So, you don't need price referenced in this expression.
If we try and run this we're going to get an error.
Couple reasons why.
Here you can see there's a parse error at character two.
So, if you get one, two.
This comma, they don't know what to do with commas and numbers,
so we are getting rid of those.
If we run it again,
we're going to see another parse error.
This time at 13.
So this is this x, instead of an x it needs to be an asterisk to be multiplication.
So, go ahead and update all of those.
Okay, so this looks right.
If you try to run it,
it still doesn't work.
So, now the error saying formula tried to apply numeric operator to string value.
So, it's treating carat,
cut and clarity all as string value,
so that means as text and not as the variables in the dataset.
So, if we go to our variables we can see that,
oh, here's our existing fields.
So, if we want to use carat,
if we just double-click that,
it has to have the brackets around it.
So, if we go in here and replace carat with that.
Now, this is going to work but these two still won't.
So, let me go ahead and replace these with the actual variable names.
Now, if I try and run this,
I'm going to get an error again,
and so this is where this might start to get a little frustrating
because you think you have the formula written out correctly,
but what we actually need to do is look back at our data and see what's going on.
So, maybe there's an issue coming into the formula tool.
So, we're gonna run it so we can look at this browse tool.
If we see here, carat is indeed a number but it looks like cut is text,
so string, and it looks like our third variable clarity is also a string.
Luckily, we have these fields that do have
a numeric values that correspond to the string values.
So, we're going to update our formula to cut underscore
ord and clarity underscore ord for those two variables.
So, let me do that real quick.
I'm just going to highlight this,
existing fields, switch it out,
do the same here.
So, now we think we have it all right.
Let's go ahead and run it.
Oh, there's still an issue.
So we're still getting this tried to apply numeric operator to string value.
What's going on?
So, this is where one of the most typical things you're going to do to
solve an error in Alteryx is by using the select tool.
So, if we bring in the select tool,
we can see what datatype every variable is,
and as you can see here everything is currently a v underscore string which means
variable string and we need it to be some sort of numeric datatype.
So, we're going to update the variables that we used this formula.
In this case carat,
cut or null and clarity underscore ord with clarity or null,
and we're going to switch those two doubles.
So, doubles is one of the more flexible numeric types,
so we suggest that for every numeric variable that you use throughout the course.
If it is a categorical variable though,
we'll get into that later and why that should stay a string,
but for now any numerical variable should be a double.
So, now finally, we should be able to run it,
hey, and there is no issue.
So, if we want, we can look at the end here.
So, let's run it one more time.
See, okay, we got the formula to run.
We can see now the predicted price and the actual price.
It looks like for- let me pull this up a bit so we can see more at a given time.
So, for a lot of these,
it seems pretty close or maybe a couple 100 off,
this one seems kind of odd.
But these are all opportunities for us to reevaluate the formula and look into it deeper.